# Fair Credit Reporting Act
## Maximum Possible Accuracy
- [15 U.S.C. § 1681e(b)](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/15/1681e) (Maximum Possible Accuracy)
> Whenever a consumer reporting agency prepares a consumer report it shall follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the individual about whom the report relates.

### Single-Identifier Matching Cases

- [*Cortez v. TransUnion*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ia8f0f2e6a6ec11dfb5fdfcf739be147c/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 617 F.3d 688 (3d Cir. 2010)

- [*Smith v. LexisNexis Screening Solutions, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I93d553407a3711e6b63ccfe393a33906/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 837 F.3d 604 (6th Cir. 2016)

- *Ramirez v. Trans Union, LLC*, 951 F.3d 1008, 1031-33 (9th Cir. 2020), *rev’d in part on other grounds sub nom Trans Union, LLC v. Ramirez*, 594 U.S. 413 (2021)

- [*Taylor v. Screening Reports, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ibbd41f1016db11e8b7ce8230219a322d/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), No. 11-cv-03426, 2013 WL 12328948, at *5-7 (N.D. Ga. July 16, 2013), *report and recommendation adopted in relevant part*, 294 F.R.D. 680 (N.D. Ga. 2013) (denying defendant’s MSJ on § 1681e(b) claim based on CRA’s failure to obtain and consider conflicting information available in full criminal record)

- [*Lopez v. Nat’l Credit Reporting, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ie0fd3a45bd8811e28501bda794601919/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), No. 12-cv-05166, 2013 WL 1999624, at *2-4 (N.D. Cal. May 13, 2013) (denying MTD in case alleging violation of § 1681e(b) in consumer report with inaccurate eviction record based solely on matches on name and “similar area” of residence)

- [*Smith v. E-BackgroundChecks.com, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I0646bed0a1cb11e4a807ad48145ed9f1/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 81 F. Supp. 3d 1342, 1358-59 (N.D. Ga. 2014), *abrogated in part on other grounds by Erickson v. First Adv. Background Servs. Corp.*, 981 F.3d 1246, 1251 (11th Cir. 2020)

- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ic55bfd80ffe611e6b28da5a53aeba485/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 238 F. Supp. 3d 1333, 1347 (N.D. Fla. 2017), *rev’d in part on other grounds*, 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020) (denying post-trial JMOL and upholding jury verdict finding willful and negligent violations of § 1681e(b) based on CRA’s failure to follow internal policy of requiring a match on “additional identifiers” before matching consumers with common names to criminal records)

- [*Gomez v. Kroll Factual Data, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I9180e3c3610911e39ac8bab74931929c/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 20 F. Supp. 3d 1103, 1107 (D. Colo. 2013) (denying MTD on § 1681e(b) claim where CRA employed name-only matching to the OFAC List and did not use “other items of an applicant’s personal information, such as the applicant’s date of birth, address, and social security number, to exclude the applicant as a possible hit”)
- *Lopez v. Nat’l Credit Reporting, Inc.*, No. 12-cv-05166, 2013 WL 1999624 (N.D. Cal. May 13, 2013) (denying MTD on § 1681e(b) claim where CRA issued consumer report listing inaccurate eviction record based solely on matches to name and “similar area” of residence)
- *Smith v. E-BackgroundChecks.com, Inc.*, 81 F. Supp. 3d 1342, 1358-59 (N.D. Ga. 2014) (denying MSJ on § 1681e(b) claim where CRA’s criminal-record matching procedure used first name, last name, and DOB but ignored other datapoints on name and date of birth criminal record matching), *abrogated in part on other grounds by Erickson v. First Adv. Background Servs. Corp.*, 981 F.3d 1246, 1251 (11th Cir. 2020)
- *Williams v. First Adv. LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*, 238 F. Supp. 3d 1333 (N.D. Fla. 2017) (denying post-trial JMOL and upholding jury verdict finding willful and negligent violations of § 1681e(b) where CRA failed to follow internal policy of requiring an “additional identifier” before matching consumers with common names to criminal records), *rev’d in part on other grounds*, 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020); 
- *Adan v. Insight Investigation, Inc.*, No. 16-cv-02807, 2018 WL 467897, at *11 (S.D. Cal. Jan. 18, 2018) (denying MSJ on claim for willful violation of § 1681e(b) claim based on first-and-last name and date-of-birth criminal-record matching)
- *Patel v. Trans Union, LLC*, 308 F.R.D. 292, 302 (N.D. Cal. 2015) (certifying class for FCRA claims based on name-only OFAC List matching), settlement approved, 2018 WL 1258194 (N.D. Cal., Oct. 26, 2017) (granting final approval to $8 million class settlement). 

### Cases re CRA Failure to Consider Conflicting Information

- *Wright v. Experian Info. Sols., Inc.*, 805 F.3d 1232, 1239 (10th Cir. 2015) (“Courts have held CRAs must look beyond information furnished to them when it is inconsistent with the CRAs’ own records, contains a facial inaccuracy, or comes from an unreliable source.”)
- *Taylor v. Screening Reports, Inc.*, No. 11-cv-03426, 2013 WL 12328948, at *5–7  (N.D. Ga. July 16, 2013) (denying defendant’s MSJ on § 1681e(b) claim re CRA’s failure to obtain and consider conflicting information available in full criminal record), *report and recommendation adopted in relevant part*, 294 F.R.D. 680 (N.D. Ga. 2013)
- *Bryant v. TRW, Inc.*, 487 F. Supp. 1234, 1242 (E.D. Mich. 1980) (refusing to set aside a jury verdict finding that a consumer reporting agency failed to follow reasonable procedures for failing to detect inconsistencies between a September report containing derogatory information and an earlier May report on which such information did not appear, even though at least one of the derogatory items predated the May report, and noting that a contrary reading of the FCRA “would make [a CRA] simply a conduit and eliminate from the Act its emphasis on the reasonableness of the procedures followed in putting together a consumer report. This is not what Congress intended.”)
- *Stewart v. Credit Bureau, Inc.*, 734 F.2d 47, 52 (D.C. Cir. 1984) (noting that “inconsistencies within a single file or report involving an inaccuracy as fundamental as a falsely reported wage earner plan, as well as inconsistencies between two files or reports involving less fundamental inaccuracies, can provide sufficient grounds for inferring that an agency acted negligently in failing to verify information”)
- *Jones v. Credit Bureau of Greater Garden City, Inc.*, No. 87-cv-1302, 1989 WL 107747, at *7 (D. Kan. Aug. 28, 1989) (conflict in addresses should have alerted CRA to potential inaccuracies).

- *Sheffer v. Experian Info. Solutions, Inc.*, No. 02-cv-7407, 2003 WL 21710573, at *2 (E.D. Pa. July 24, 2003) (denying MSJ on § 1681e(b) claim where TransUnion issued consumer report with deceased indicator despite “internal inconsistencies,” including an account-opening date four years before plaintiff was born and a deceased notation on just one of “approximately two dozen” accounts)
- *McKeown v. Sears Roebuck & Co.*, 335 F. Supp. 2d 917, 925–26, 936 (W.D. Wis. 2004) (denying MSJ on § 1681i “reasonable reinvestigation” claim where plaintiff disputed deceased indicator on report and TransUnion thereafter “knew or should have known that [credit furnisher’s] information was not trustworthy” because furnisher’s automated dispute response “verified plaintiff’s name as a whole but reported that the middle initial and last name . . . did not match the one on the account”)
- *Gohman v. Equifax Info. Servs., LLC*, 395 F. Supp. 2d 822, 827–28 (D. Minn. 2005) (denying MSJ on § 1681e(b) claim where CRA issued “at least five” consumer reports with inaccurate deceased notation received from one furnisher, even though “numerous other accounts were opened or remained active” and deceased notation was therefore “plainly inconsistent with other information in [plaintiff’s] file”); 

### “Technically Accurate” Cases


- [*Gomez v. Kroll Factual Data, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I9180e3c3610911e39ac8bab74931929c/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 20 F. Supp. 3d 1103, 1107 (D. Colo. 2013) (rejecting argument that “a notation of ‘similar to’ is not inaccurate because nothing in the Consumer Report states that Plaintiff is either Gabriel Gomez Chavez or any other individual on the OFAC List”)




- [*Fernandez v. RentGrow, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Icec48860abcb11ec95f7f56bb3f79725/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 341 F.R.D. 174, 192 (D. Md. 2022), *rev’d on other grounds*, No. 22-1619, 2024 WL 4138658 (4th Cir. Sept. 11, 2024)
  >RentGrow argues that its inclusion of an OFAC alert on Mr. Fernandez’s tenant screening report was not technically inaccurate because it merely listed Mr. Fernandez as a ‘possible match’ to an individual on the OFAC list, rather than a match. In support of this contention, RentGrow cites two cases—neither of which are from this Circuit—that awarded summary judgment to the defendant credit reporting agency where the defendant did not ‘wrongfully attribute’ inaccurate criminal information to the subject of the report and instead either warned the report requester that the criminal record may not belong to the subject, or included additional information about the criminal record itself that the report requester could use to verify whether the record belonged to the subject. *Erickson v. First Advantage Background Servs. Corp.*, 981 F.3d 1246, 1252 (11th Cir. 2020); *see also Taylor v. Tenant Tracker, Inc.*, Civ. No. BSM-10-0282, 2011 WL 5402388 (E.D. Ark. Nov. 4, 2011). Accepting this argument would cause the Court to interpret the FCRA in a way that is simply unsupported by the text of § 1681e(b), which requires ‘maximum possible accuracy’ rather than mere technical accuracy.

- [*Dalton v. Cap. Associated Indus., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I066ab4a479b811d9bf29e2067ad74e5b/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 257 F.3d 409, 415 (4th Cir. 2001) (“A [consumer] report is inaccurate when it is patently incorrect or when it is misleading in such a way and to such an extent that it can be expected to have an adverse effect.” (cleaned up))

### FCRA Class Certification Decisions

#### Ascertainability
- asdfoihsdf

#### Predominance / Individualized Issues
- oasidfoasihfs

- [*Patel v. Trans Union, LLC*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I49d881801e5411e5be1ff4cec5913d5d/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 308 F.R.D. 292, 302 (N.D. Cal. 2015)
  > The issue of accuracy is a core issue for ascertainability and the predominance of common issues. The defendants’ fundamental quarrel is with the plaintiff’s assertion that tagging the class members as (for example) ‘terrorists’ (via the name-only logic) is always inaccurate and thus is enough to define the class (and establish the predominance of this common issue). The defendants counter that the plaintiff cannot show, except file by file, that the SmartMove reports wrongly tagged the class members as terrorists. They complain that the plaintiff cannot just assert that the terrorist tags were inaccurate and then shift the burden to the defendants to prove that the tags were accurate.
  > 
  > Normally, the defendants would be right. But this case presents a peculiar situation. The defendants’ implied argument is that a significant number of the proposed class actually may have been accurately tagged as potential terrorists. Absent some pretty significant proof to the contrary, the court is willing to assume that no significant (read: certification-breaking) fraction of the tagged proposed class was in fact accurately tagged as potential terrorists.


### [15 U.S.C § 1681n](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/15/1681n) (Willfulness)

#### Arguments Based on “Industry Standards”
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ic55bfd80ffe611e6b28da5a53aeba485/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 238 F. Supp. 3d 1333, 1347 n.17 (N.D. Fla. 2017), *rev’d in part on other grounds*, 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020) (rejecting argument on post-trial JMOL from CRA defendant that it had been “acting as a reasonably prudent consumer reporting agency” because it “met or exceeded industry standards,” and noting that “the jury could have concluded . . . that the entire consumer-reporting industry violated the FCRA” (cleaned up))

#### Arguments Based on “Dispute Rates”
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ic55bfd80ffe611e6b28da5a53aeba485/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 238 F. Supp. 3d 1333, 1344 (N.D. Fla. 2017), *rev’d in part on other grounds*, 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020) (cleaned up)
  > Nevertheless, First Advantage argues, and argued *ad nauseam* at trial, that their procedures “did and do in fact assure maximum possible accuracy because during the relevant time period First Advantage accurately matched criminal records with consumers 99.62% of the time.” That argument is like the thirteenth chime of a clock. You not only know it is wrong, but it leads you to question everything you heard before it. It isn’t First Advantage’s accuracy rate as applied to all consumers that matters; it is First Advantage’s accuracy rate as applied to common-name consumers. Although neither party presented definitive evidence on that issue, it is far more likely that one would erroneously match a common-name consumer than a unique-name consumer. Common sense thus suggests that many of the 14,346 ‘not-me” errors were for common-name consumers.
  
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ic55bfd80ffe611e6b28da5a53aeba485/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 238 F. Supp. 3d 1333, 1346 n.15 (N.D. Fla. 2017), *rev’d in part on other grounds*, 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020) (“This Court acknowledges that there is no direct evidence in the record of other erroneous first name, last name, and date of birth matches. But given the sheer number of ‘not-me’ or ‘not-mine’ errors—errors where the records contained in the background report are not that of the job applicant—the jury could have reasonably inferred that others, and likely many others, have occurred.”)
  
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I687bb510334111ea9076f88ee0fd553a/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 947 F.3d 735, 763-64 (11th Cir. 2020) (**in punitive-damages analysis**)
  > In mitigation, Defendant argues that its overall error rate between 2010 and 2013 was quite low, which is true: the rate nationally for all types of errors identified through the dispute resolution process, not just the ones involved in this case, was only 0.38%. But as Plaintiff points out, given the large number of reports issued, even this low rate ensnared over 13,000 people during this time period. Plaintiff, however, never showed how many of the erroneous reports generated for these 13,000+ people arose from use of an inadequate common-name procedure. So, it is impossible for us, on this record, to assess the extent of the notice to Defendant that its practices were resulting in the dissemination of incorrect reports.
  
- [*Fernandez v. RentGrow, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Icec48860abcb11ec95f7f56bb3f79725/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 341 F.R.D. 174, 192 (D. Md. 2022), *rev’d on other grounds*, No. 22-1619, 2024 WL 4138658 (4th Cir. Sept. 11, 2024)
  > Although [[*Dalton v. Capital Assoc. Indus., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I066ab4a479b811d9bf29e2067ad74e5b/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 257 F.3d 409 (4th Cir. 2001)] found insufficient evidence to support a reasonable jury’s finding of willfulness, it is distinguishable from this case. There, the challenged procedure involved a subvendor’s reliance on the legal opinion of a court clerk—which resulted in the inaccurate listing of a prior conviction as a felony, rather than a misdemeanor. *Dalton*, 257 F.3d at 413. The *Dalton* court concluded that a plaintiff failed to show this inaccuracy was willful because the plaintiff did not show that the credit reporting agency ‘was aware that its subvendors relied upon informal legal opinions from court clerks’ and failed to present evidence that other consumers lodged similar complaints. *Id.* at 418. In addition, the agency had generally found the subvendor to be ‘reliable,’ and corrected its error one day after the plaintiff challenged the accuracy of the report. *Id.* Here, in contrast, it is clear that RentGrow was aware of its own procedures for finding and reporting OFAC information. Further, although the dispute rate is of RentGrow’s OFAC reporting practice is low, Mr. Fernandez has successfully shown that at least 71 individuals filed complaints similar to his own. Far from finding its process to be ‘reliable,’ RentGrow has not identified any individual who was accurately matched to the OFAC list through its name-only search procedure.

  > RentGrow also points to the 0.1% dispute rate it received during the putative class period, explaining that the Sixth Circuit reversed a jury verdict due to insufficient evidence of willfulness where the procedure in question had a 0.2% dispute rate. Even in light of Mr. Fernandez’s emphasis that ‘many consumers simply are not in a position to dispute [their tenant report], especially here, where English may be a second language to many of the affected customers,’ the OFAC reporting procedure’s 0.1% dispute rate nonetheless weakens Mr. Fernandez’s arguments that the 71 disputes RentGrow received over the course of the putative class period demonstrates that it knew its procedures violated the FCRA.

### [15 U.S.C § 1681i](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/15/1681i) (Reinvestigations)
  > **§ 1681i(a)(1)(A)**:  Subject to subsection (f) and except as provided in subsection (g), if the completeness or accuracy of any item of information contained in a consumer’s file at a consumer reporting agency is disputed by the consumer and the consumer notifies the agency directly, or indirectly through a reseller, of such dispute, the agency shall, free of charge, conduct a reasonable reinvestigation to determine whether the disputed information is inaccurate and record the current status of the disputed information, or delete the item from the file in accordance with paragraph (5), before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the agency receives the notice of the dispute from the consumer or reseller.
  
- [*McKeown v. Sears Roebuck & Co.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I9ae946d4542611d9bf30d7fdf51b6bd4/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0)], 335 F. Supp. 2d 917, 925-26, 936 (W.D. Wis. 2004) (denying MSJ on § 1681i “reasonable reinvestiga-tion” claim where plaintiff disputed deceased indicator on report and TransUnion thereafter “knew or should have known that [credit furnisher’s] information was not trustworthy” because furnisher’s automated dispute response “verified plaintiff’s name as a whole but reported that the middle initial and last name that [TransUnion] submitted did not match the one on the ac-count”)
  
### Punitive Damages in FCRA Cases
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I687bb510334111ea9076f88ee0fd553a/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020)
