### [15 U.S.C § 1681n](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/15/1681n) (Willfulness)

#### Arguments Based on “Industry Standards”
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ic55bfd80ffe611e6b28da5a53aeba485/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 238 F. Supp. 3d 1333, 1347 n.17 (N.D. Fla. 2017), *rev’d in part on other grounds*, 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020) (rejecting argument on post-trial JMOL from CRA defendant that it had been “acting as a reasonably prudent consumer reporting agency” because it “met or exceeded industry standards,” and noting that “the jury could have concluded . . . that the entire consumer-reporting industry violated the FCRA” (cleaned up))

#### Arguments Based on “Dispute Rates”
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ic55bfd80ffe611e6b28da5a53aeba485/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 238 F. Supp. 3d 1333, 1344 (N.D. Fla. 2017), *rev’d in part on other grounds*, 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020) (cleaned up)
  > Nevertheless, First Advantage argues, and argued *ad nauseam* at trial, that their procedures “did and do in fact assure maximum possible accuracy because during the relevant time period First Advantage accurately matched criminal records with consumers 99.62% of the time.” That argument is like the thirteenth chime of a clock. You not only know it is wrong, but it leads you to question everything you heard before it. It isn’t First Advantage’s accuracy rate as applied to all consumers that matters; it is First Advantage’s accuracy rate as applied to common-name consumers. Although neither party presented definitive evidence on that issue, it is far more likely that one would erroneously match a common-name consumer than a unique-name consumer. Common sense thus suggests that many of the 14,346 ‘not-me” errors were for common-name consumers.
  
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Ic55bfd80ffe611e6b28da5a53aeba485/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 238 F. Supp. 3d 1333, 1346 n.15 (N.D. Fla. 2017), *rev’d in part on other grounds*, 947 F.3d 735 (11th Cir. 2020) (“This Court acknowledges that there is no direct evidence in the record of other erroneous first name, last name, and date of birth matches. But given the sheer number of ‘not-me’ or ‘not-mine’ errors—errors where the records contained in the background report are not that of the job applicant—the jury could have reasonably inferred that others, and likely many others, have occurred.”)
  
- [*Williams v. First Advantage LNS Screening Sols., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I687bb510334111ea9076f88ee0fd553a/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 947 F.3d 735, 763-64 (11th Cir. 2020) (**in punitive-damages analysis**)
  > In mitigation, Defendant argues that its overall error rate between 2010 and 2013 was quite low, which is true: the rate nationally for all types of errors identified through the dispute resolution process, not just the ones involved in this case, was only 0.38%. But as Plaintiff points out, given the large number of reports issued, even this low rate ensnared over 13,000 people during this time period. Plaintiff, however, never showed how many of the erroneous reports generated for these 13,000+ people arose from use of an inadequate common-name procedure. So, it is impossible for us, on this record, to assess the extent of the notice to Defendant that its practices were resulting in the dissemination of incorrect reports.
  
- [*Fernandez v. RentGrow, Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/Icec48860abcb11ec95f7f56bb3f79725/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 341 F.R.D. 174, 192 (D. Md. 2022), *rev’d on other grounds*, No. 22-1619, 2024 WL 4138658 (4th Cir. Sept. 11, 2024)
  > Although [[*Dalton v. Capital Assoc. Indus., Inc.*](https://www.westlaw.com/Document/I066ab4a479b811d9bf29e2067ad74e5b/View/FullText.html?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&VR=3.0&RS=cblt1.0), 257 F.3d 409 (4th Cir. 2001)] found insufficient evidence to support a reasonable jury’s finding of willfulness, it is distinguishable from this case. There, the challenged procedure involved a subvendor’s reliance on the legal opinion of a court clerk—which resulted in the inaccurate listing of a prior conviction as a felony, rather than a misdemeanor. *Dalton*, 257 F.3d at 413. The *Dalton* court concluded that a plaintiff failed to show this inaccuracy was willful because the plaintiff did not show that the credit reporting agency ‘was aware that its subvendors relied upon informal legal opinions from court clerks’ and failed to present evidence that other consumers lodged similar complaints. *Id.* at 418. In addition, the agency had generally found the subvendor to be ‘reliable,’ and corrected its error one day after the plaintiff challenged the accuracy of the report. *Id.* Here, in contrast, it is clear that RentGrow was aware of its own procedures for finding and reporting OFAC information. Further, although the dispute rate is of RentGrow’s OFAC reporting practice is low, Mr. Fernandez has successfully shown that at least 71 individuals filed complaints similar to his own. Far from finding its process to be ‘reliable,’ RentGrow has not identified any individual who was accurately matched to the OFAC list through its name-only search procedure.

  > RentGrow also points to the 0.1% dispute rate it received during the putative class period, explaining that the Sixth Circuit reversed a jury verdict due to insufficient evidence of willfulness where the procedure in question had a 0.2% dispute rate. Even in light of Mr. Fernandez’s emphasis that ‘many consumers simply are not in a position to dispute [their tenant report], especially here, where English may be a second language to many of the affected customers,’ the OFAC reporting procedure’s 0.1% dispute rate nonetheless weakens Mr. Fernandez’s arguments that the 71 disputes RentGrow received over the course of the putative class period demonstrates that it knew its procedures violated the FCRA.